Converted to Markdown (#622)
cncf/tag-security: supply-chain-security/supply-chain-security-paper/sscsp.md

Shared with the CNCF community

# Software Supply Chain Best Practices

## Metadata

| **Markdown** | | | |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| **Version** | **1.0** | 13 MAY 2021 | [Original working doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VURD9rdEhiuqPdixhEozkHw01Tk6e2AaJVjBK3pK6Zc) |
| **Status** | WIP | In Review | **Approved** |

| **PDF** | |
| -- | -- |
| **Created** | TBD |
| **Last Reviewed** | TBD |
| **PDF Published** | TBD |
| **Release Version** | 1.0 | 
| **Final PDF Approvers** | [ ] @lizrice [ ] @justincormack  |

| **Originating Content and Review** | |
| -- | --|
| **Contributors** | Andres Vega @anvega, Emily Fox @TheFoxAtWork, Faisal Razzak @faisalrazzak, @apmarshall, Cole Kennedy @colek42,Mikhail Swift @mikhailswift, Jon Meadows @jonmuk, Aditya Sirish A Yelgundhalli @adityasaky, Nisha Kumar @nishakm, Joshua Lock @joshuagl, Andrew Martin @sublimino, @mnm678 , Vinod Anandan @VinodAnandan, Magno Logan @magnologan, @rjulian @lumjjb @mlieberman85 @garrying |
| **Reviewers** | @aspanner @mike-ensor @timfong888 @alexbarbato @voor, Alok Raj @ak-secops | 

## Index

> - [Executive Summary](#executive-summary)
> - [Introduction](#introduction)
>   - [Audience](#audience)
>   - [Scope](#scope)
>     - [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
>   - [Assumptions](#assumptions)
>     - [Shared Responsibility](#shared-responsibility)
>     - [Projects and Products](#projects-and-products)
>   - [Assurance Personas and Risk Appetite](#assurance-personas-and-risk-appetite)
>     - [Assurance Requirements](#assurance-requirements)
>     - [Risk Environments](#risk-environments)
>   - [Securing the Software Supply Chain](#securing-the-software-supply-chain)
>   - [General Guidance](#general-guidance)
> - [Securing the Source Code](#securing-the-source-code)
>   - [Secure Authentication](#secure-authentication)
> - [Securing Materials](#securing-materials)
>   - [Second and Third-Party Risk Management](#second-and-third-party-risk-management)
> - [Securing Build Pipelines](#securing-build-pipelines)
>   - [Build Infrastructure](#build-infrastructure)
>     - [Build Step and Worker](#build-step-and-worker)
>     - [Build Pipeline to Create Build Stage Images](#build-pipeline-to-create-build-images)
>     - [Pipeline Orchestrator](#pipeline-orchestrator)
>     - [A Sample Build Pipeline](#a-sample-build-pipeline)
>     - [Recommendations for Reproducible Builds](#recommendations-for-reproducible-builds)
> - [Securing Artifacts](#securing-artifacts)
>   - [Encryption](#encryption)
> - [Securing Deployments](#securing-deployments)
> - [Prior Art and References](#prior-art-and-references)
> - [Appendix I](#appendix-i-containers)
> - [Footnotes](#notes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Executive Summary](#executive-summary)
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Securing the Source Code](#securing-the-source-code)
- [Securing Materials](#securing-materials)
- [Securing Build Pipelines](#securing-build-pipelines)
- [Securing Artifacts](#securing-artifacts)
- [Securing Deployments](#securing-deployments)
- [Prior Art and References](#prior-art-and-references)
- [Appendix I](#appendix-i-containers)
- [Appendix II)(#appendix-ii-software-groups)
```
make consistent with PDF

Shared with the CNCF community

# Software Supply Chain Best Practices

## Metadata

| **Markdown** | | | |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| **Version** | **1.0** | 13 MAY 2021 | [Original working doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VURD9rdEhiuqPdixhEozkHw01Tk6e2AaJVjBK3pK6Zc) |
| **Status** | WIP | In Review | **Approved** |

| **PDF** | |
| -- | -- |
| **Created** | TBD |
| **Last Reviewed** | TBD |
| **PDF Published** | TBD |
| **Release Version** | 1.0 | 
| **Final PDF Approvers** | [ ] @lizrice [ ] @justincormack  |

| **Originating Content and Review** | |
| -- | --|
| **Contributors** | Andres Vega @anvega, Emily Fox @TheFoxAtWork, Faisal Razzak @faisalrazzak, @apmarshall, Cole Kennedy @colek42,Mikhail Swift @mikhailswift, Jon Meadows @jonmuk, Aditya Sirish A Yelgundhalli @adityasaky, Nisha Kumar @nishakm, Joshua Lock @joshuagl, Andrew Martin @sublimino, @mnm678 , Vinod Anandan @VinodAnandan, Magno Logan @magnologan, @rjulian @lumjjb @mlieberman85 @garrying |
| **Reviewers** | @aspanner @mike-ensor @timfong888 @alexbarbato @voor, Alok Raj @ak-secops | 

## Index

> -  [Executive Summary](#executive-summary)

Reviewer: The index is flat, this is because of the multiple spaces between the bullet and the start of text i believe.

> -  [Executive Summary](#executive-summary)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Executive Summary](#executive-summary)
```

> -  [Introduction](#introduction)
>   -  [Audience](#audience)
>   -  [Scope](#scope)
>     -  [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
>   -  [Assumptions](#assumptions)
>     -  [Shared Responsibility](#shared-responsibility)
>     -  [Projects and Products](#projects-and-products)
>   -  [Assurance Personas and Risk Appetite](#assurance-personas-and-risk-appetite)
>     -  [Assurance Requirements](#assurance-requirements)
>     -  [Risk Environments](#risk-environments)
>   -  [Securing the Software Supply Chain](#securing-the-software-supply-chain)
>   -  [General Guidance](#general-guidance)
> -  [Securing the Source Code](#securing-the-source-code)
>   - [Secure Authentication](#secure-authentication)
> -  [Securing Materials](#securing-materials)
>   -  [Second and Third-Party Risk Management](#second-and-third-party-risk-management)
> -  [Securing Build Pipelines](#securing-build-pipelines)
>   -  [Build Infrastructure](#build-infrastructure)
>     -  [Build Step and Worker](#build-step-and-worker)
>     -  [Build Pipeline to Create Build Stage Images](#build-pipeline-to-create-build-images)
>     -  [Pipeline Orchestrator](#pipeline-orchestrator)
>     -  [A Sample Build Pipeline](#a-sample-build-pipeline)
>     -  [Recommendations for Reproducible Builds](#recommendations-for-reproducible-builds)
> -  [Securing Artifacts](#securing-artifacts)
>   -  [Encryption](#encryption)
> -  [Securing Deployments](#securing-deployments)
> -  [Prior Art and References](#prior-art-and-references)
> -  [Appendix I](#appendix-i-containers)
> -  [Footnotes](#notes)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Audience](#audience)
  - [Scope](#scope)
    - [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
  - [Assumptions](#assumptions)
    - [Shared Responsibility](#shared-responsibility)
    - [Projects and Products](#projects-and-products)
  - [Assurance Personas and Risk Appetite](#assurance-personas-and-risk-appetite)
    - [Assurance Requirements](#assurance-requirements)
    - [Risk Environments](#risk-environments)
  - [Securing the Software Supply Chain](#securing-the-software-supply-chain)
  - [General Guidance](#general-guidance)
- [Securing the Source Code](#securing-the-source-code)
  - [Secure Authentication](#secure-authentication)
- [Securing Materials](#securing-materials)
  - [Second and Third-Party Risk Management](#second-and-third-party-risk-management)
- [Securing Build Pipelines](#securing-build-pipelines)
  - [Build Infrastructure](#build-infrastructure)
    - [Build Step and Worker](#build-step-and-worker)
    - [Build Pipeline to Create Build Stage Images](#build-pipeline-to-create-build-images)
    - [Pipeline Orchestrator](#pipeline-orchestrator)
    - [A Sample Build Pipeline](#a-sample-build-pipeline)
    - [Recommendations for Reproducible Builds](#recommendations-for-reproducible-builds)
- [Securing Artifacts](#securing-artifacts)
  - [Encryption](#encryption)
- [Securing Deployments](#securing-deployments)
- [Prior Art and References](#prior-art-and-references)
- [Appendix I](#appendix-i-containers)
- [Footnotes](#notes)
```

Additionally, the build pipeline itself must be secured, requiring the "separation of concerns" between individual build steps and workers, each of which are concerned with a separate stage in the build process.  Build Workers should consider hardened inputs, validation, and reproducibility at each build. Finally, the artefacts produced by the supply chain must be accompanied by signed metadata which attests to their contents and can be verified independently, as well as revalidated at consumption and deployment. Each of these stages will be explored in the document that follows, with an overarching introduction to each stage and detailed recommendations for best practices. A detailed evaluation model for these four principles can be found in the CNCF Security TAG’s supply chain repository[^3].

> # 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Existing research comparing open source or first party products with closed source[^10] software indicates that a major threat vector is organizations’ lacking visibility into closed source products, to independently scrutinize the risk presented to a consumer. Ironically, cybersecurity companies are also subject to supply chain attacks and should be duly considered a source of supply chain risk alongside other products. Cybersecurity companies are just as susceptible to breaches[^11] as any other organization.

As with the manufacturing industry’s workflow changes in the 1980s[^12] and technology’s subsequent adoption of this streamlining through Agile and DevOps, technology may once again look to manufacturing supply chain practices to learn and convert existing principles to software lifecycles, cloud and cloud native design, and general software health.  The ‘securing the supply chain’ problem is extensive, thus making it difficult to protect an organization’s supply chain.

> ## 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

_Assurance categories: Moderate to high and risk categories: moderate to high_

Modern SCM platforms allow the use of randomly generated short lived tokens for the access management of machines and services such as CI/CD pipeline agents. The short lived access tokens can be used to authenticate over HTTPS. Short-life credential issuance encourages the use of fine grained permissions and automation in provisioning access tokens. These permissions further restrict the type of operation that can be performed at the repository level. 

For CI/CD pipeline agents, short-lived access tokens should be considered instead of password-based credentials. The use of very short-lived tokens like OAuth 2.0, OpenID Connect, etc., will help to implement more secure access and increase the security assurance. These tokens shouldn't be confused with the long-lived/non-refreshable personal access tokens (PAT) such as those [available on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token) , as these PATs will have similar security properties as a shared secret/password type credentials. 

> # 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Encrypting artefacts allows its view or use to be tied to a key relying less on the trust of the distribution infrastructure (e.g. registries). It is recommended organizations use key management and distribution systems with identity and attestation mechanisms (e.g. SPIFFE/SPIRE) to accomplish this.

# Securing Deployments

Software delivery systems have been historically prone to several types of attacks. The Update Framework (TUF)[^51] has been designed to be resistant to these attacks. Therefore, any system designed to distribute software artefacts and their corresponding metadata must have several properties that enable them to counter the attacks defined in the TUF spec: Trust, Compromise Resilience, Integrity, and Freshness. In addition the system must contain preventive and detective capabilities to monitor its security posture and report if attempts to compromise are discovered.

## Verification:

#### Ensure clients can perform Verification of Artefacts and associated metadata

_Assurance categories: Moderate to high and risk categories: Moderate to high_

> Clients receiving software artefacts from the distribution mechanism must be able to verify the integrity of the downloaded files. It’s also vital that the view a client has of the repository is consistent and up to date so the client sees the latest version of all the files it has access to. This is especially necessary for highly volatile repositories. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients receiving software artefacts from the distribution mechanism must be able to verify the integrity of the downloaded files. It’s also vital that the view a client has of the repository is consistent and up to date so the client sees the latest version of all the files it has access to. This is especially necessary for highly volatile repositories.
```

>  \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
```

## Automation:

#### Use The Update Framework

_Assurance categories: High and risk categories: High_

TUF is a specification[^55] for securely delivering software artefacts by combining trust, compromise resilience, integrity, and freshness. It is a graduated CNCF project and has been deployed in various contexts — PyPI, Datadog, Amazon Web Services for Bottlerocket, Notary, Google Fuchsia, and IBM cloud. 

Several TUF implementations exist that can be leveraged by new adopters. The reference implementation[^56] is written in Python, and is maintained by the core TUF team. Notary, another CNCF project, implements TUF for its underlying security framework. Finally, there are implementations written in Go, go-tuf[^57], Rust, tough[^58], and PHP php-tuf[^59]. 

TUF has also been used to bootstrap trust in delivering software supply chain metadata, specifically those pertaining to in-toto. The Datadog model combines TUF and in-toto to provide end-to-end guarantees to the consumer. This model has been documented in a blog post[^60] and two in-toto Enhancements (ITEs), ITE-2[^61] and ITE-3[^62].

> # 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[^6]:
     [https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/tree/master/supply-chain-security/compromises](https://github.com/cncf/sig-security/tree/master/supply-chain-security/compromises)

[^7]:
     See, for example: https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/in-depth-research-reports/report/breaking-trust-shades-of-crisis-across-an-insecure-software-supply-chain/

[^8]:
     Often developers create snippets of code or small libraries to create simple solutions to common problems and make them available to the community.  These may end up being foundational to modern software even though they are not usually re-evaluated and corrected once written.

[^9]:
     Life sustainment systems may include, but are not limited to power grids and water treatment facilities.

[^10]:
     https://www.csoonline.com/article/3191947/supply-chain-attacks-show-why-you-should-be-wary-of-third-party-providers.html

[^11]:
     https://www.immuniweb.com/blog/state-cybersecurity-dark-web-exposure.html

[^12]:
    See, for example: Ohno, T., 1988 _Toyota Production System_.

[^13]:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

     John Allspaw, “How to keep your systems running day after day”: https://youtu.be/xA5U85LSk0M?t=295

[^14]:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

     https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turtles_all_the_way_down

[^15]:
    [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_factory#History](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_factory#History)

[^16]:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
